alright let's kick this off with a
specific example before we get into
generalities you know we were talking a
little bit here on livestream about the
rise and fall of Joe vegan and you know
part of what makes that example
interesting is it obviously he came up
to a certain level of success he had a
kind of emotional breakdown and then he
destroyed everything he worked so hard
to build up already it's an interesting
story in a sense and I was saying you
know look when you have these conflicts
other people on YouTube you can take it
in any direction you want to take it
that includes my conflict with Joe vegan
I wanted to take that in a more
meaningful direction with Joe where I
wanted to have him on the show I want to
talk to me on skype and hear him explain
what his plans are for opening his
animal sanctuary talk about the
economics of actually taking care of a
dozen pig's how much money that caused
but also talk about the ethics you know
the no-kill Animal Sanctuary a lot of
the time you're talking with taking a
stray cat and putting it in a prison
putting it in a concrete room to wait
until it dies if you think a no-kill
sanctuary is ethically simple and
straightforward it's really not I went
over in an earlier video with these pigs
if they live long enough you know if
you're keeping them as domesticated
animals they get these really expensive
and awful health problems they have to
have hip replacement surgery but what
are you going to do that are you going
to spend thousands of dollars to keep
this pig alive waiting to die in a
no-kill Animal Sanctuary living in
circumstances not so different from a
farm not so different from a prison and
what's what's your ethical mandate there
how are you justifying this to your
donors and you're ultimately you're
taking these animals and you're giving
them a life that in no way resembles the
way they would live in the wild or even
feral or what have you you're keeping
them alive just so you can one day watch
them die and again go and visit real
animal sanctuaries you know you got a
bunch of dogs in a cage and once a day a
guy comes and lets those dogs out of the
cage and they
around the field for an hour and then he
puts in the back in the cage and then he
goes to the next cage and lets out a
bunch of other dogs I think anyone who
looks at that is going to have to stop
and reflect on what is the meaning of
this as a vegan charity and even in a
little bit of a profound way what is the
meaning of life but look I had this
conflict with your vegan that was the
direction I wanted to take it in Joe
vegan had conflicts with people like
cheetah he can take that interaction
what's taken it I got this conflict now
with happy healthy vegan and there are a
bunch of different issues I've made a
bunch of different videos in response to
the same conflict taking it in different
directions but Joe vegan he took it
where he wanted to take it he ignored
good advice from all kinds of people
including myself and you know he burnt
out and got a broken heart would add but
look you know I'm still fundamentally a
fan of real talk of keeping it real on
camera whether you're sharing your
sorrows or your joy in life um and it's
it's a problem can you still talk about
your sex life on youtube if you can't is
that because your sex life is kind of
[ __ ] up as you should change that like
that's the part that you should change
or you know why are you on YouTube any
way if you can't talk honestly but your
choice in your throws life you guys have
probably heard me say in a bunch of
different conflicts of people defame
your sling you do hear me say you know
this didn't upset me that didn't upset
me and then I talk about what the
problem is and you know I think every
single time I said that that has been
true i don't think i've ever come on
camera and lied and said i was not upset
about something when I really was but
there are things that upset me and I
mean the the conflict with Joe vegan you
guys might not guess this there was all
this [ __ ] and some of its kind of
frustrating or exasperated like Joe
vegan knows my court case is real I've
presented him with legal documents and
I've offered to discuss it further with
him but he's still coming on the
internet and lying suggestion to his
viewers the McCaws thats frustrating or
it's you know makes me think he's an
idiot it makes me have contempt for him
but that was not upsetting to me you
know of all the things Joe vegan said or
did about me oh I should say also
general like in
the early days the channel I sent him a
lot of encouragement and I felt that
satire was something positive for the
vegan community and I mean I warned him
that he had to be clear when he was
doing satire when he was speaking
earnestly it was islands because he did
both but you know um the in general I
wasn't offended by the comedy as comedy
not at all but you know the one thing he
said that really did hurt me that really
did emotionally hurt me and of course if
partly had to do with the time when it
came to me in the circumstances and the
fact that I didn't want to answer it I
didn't want to come on camera and
respond to it you know when Joe vegan
laid into my situation at the University
that really had an emotional impact on
me and this reflects the fact i mean
i've said this before and it may sound
trivial it may sound like I'm joking
around when I say it but my negative
experience with universities in Canada
especially with the incredibly low
quality of the university system and my
having no options moving at in the
future because the university ism that
really is the central tragedy of my
adult life and it's not a tragedy I can
escape from from or forget about I was
dealing with it back in the year 2000
and I'm still dealing it with it in the
year 2017 right i mean it's not like a
trauma you leave behind i'm still now a
university student getting a second
bachelor's degree because there was no
ma program for me to enter and at the
end of this bachelor's degree my
situation of the university systems
though still continues it may hurt me
for other reasons too because I mean
what he was really ridiculing me for it
really was an attack on my character was
the fact that I stood up and did the
right thing from my perspective and I
think I think genuinely I stood up and
did the right thing in challenging the
director of my department the head of
the department and challenging
ultimately you know the authorities than
the University the Ombudsman and the
[Music]
sort of the head of the faculty I forget
the name for that now the Dean you know
that was me fighting the good fight and
standing up for a cause that a lot of
other people couldn't stand up for a lot
of other students in that classroom
or 18 or 19 years old they couldn't
bureaucratically or emotionally take
that complaint forward and sit down at
that board meeting sit down face-to-face
with the Dean and head of the department
and say hey this program is a disaster
you guys need to step up and recognize
the problem and maybe lift a finger to
solve it you know so to have him you
know again not even challenge that you
know ridiculing that opened me up to
public scorn and derision and inviting
his audience to laugh at me for that
because of my background in University
fusion the ongoing tragedy in my life
really I mean I I can say it in an
offhand way but I am I am emotionally
[ __ ] up about it I am I mean that that
really wounded me and put me in a
position when watching that video from
Joe vegan and I yeah I can think of a
response i can think i'm coming on
camera and explain what i'm explaining
right now i don't want to i don't want
to be held up to ridicule in the precise
way that he did on that and I don't want
to explain what it was doing at the
University and why I stood up for that
issue and why I you know ultimate
there's a bureaucratic component there's
a paper we're component to it there's
also literally standing up on pointed
moral principle and telling an academic
department that what they're doing is is
bad and wrong and needs to change for me
I mean again and that made more of a
difference in the world then I've told
you back in the day I stood up and went
to City Hall and presenting complaint
and so you know of course there are deep
in shell levels this was also the sense
which I'm always talking about the
importance of that in veganism we need
people in this movement who can take a
complaint on paper and at the podium and
in the boardroom we can take a complaint
of City Hall who can take a complaint to
the Board of Directors in in any
institutional setting like this so you
know Wow of all the things he said to me
that's source said about me publicly or
privately that's the one that really
really got to me and then you guys know
if you watch this channel regularly I'm
still going through the paperwork for a
divorce I'm I'm separated but not yet
legally divorced in France I still have
a legal struggle going on in relation to
you know joint custody from my
water this kind of thing so you might be
surprised to hear me say that my
experience with education is the
defining tragedy my life but it is as
terrible as my experience was and being
separated for my daughter because I mean
the level of sorrow the level of really
even physical pain you experience on an
emotional level and on an instinctual
level that's deep that's F deep in terms
of evolutionary time deep in terms of
instinct waking up in the middle of the
night and feeling that your daughter
ought to be in the room with you because
I spent the first year of my daughter's
life taking care of her 24 7 so there's
some men their daughter is born but
they're still going to work seven days a
week they don't see that much their
newborn kid I was with my daughter what
are gonna say bonding with her I was
spending quality time with her 24 hours
a day seven days a week I had no other
job I'd no other duties in life aside
from assisting my wife you know which
includes things like mopping the floor
and taking care of my daughter and we
had no other you know family helping we
didn't have any answer uncles we didn't
have a servant or anything we didn't
have a cleaning lady or anything you
know so that was all of my time and
effort and then to be suddenly and
traumatically separated from your
daughter yes that is a type of sorrow
many of you will never understand no
offense but still I can at least say
that is just one point in time problems
with higher education in Canada being a
prisoner of my passport being stuck at
that system is a problem I never get to
escape from yeah bottom line on this to
morals to this story okay one if you
can't be honest about this stuff the
sorrow and the joy in your life on
YouTube don't come on YouTube whether
that's because you have a job you get
fired from for being honest the way I'm
being honest right now about my sex life
but my divorce about
my situation University if it's because
of your job recognize that get off
youtube if it's because of you and your
life if it's because for some other
reason really think about it if you
can't be honest with the sauros and the
joys in your life don't come on camera
at all don't come on the internet at all
in a sense right and you know the other
one is just any one of these conflicts
any one of these debates no matter how
deep no matter how shallow it's an
opportunity it's just an opportunity for
you to take the topic in any direction
you want to take it a few weeks ago I
saw this one video from rich piana this
body builder a lot of people laughed
they were just amazed that i made a
video responding their rich piana but to
me whether you think of that video is
deep or shallow i watch that i watch
this other guy in the internet and i
thought well you know I really want to
respond it I really have something to
say there's something meaningful in my
life I want to share and uh I guess I
guess that's the best reason to be on
YouTube I guess that's the most
rewarding way to be on YouTube is just
to have that self-confidence and also to
have that vulnerability come on and
share the the joys and sorrows of your
life and see who else is going to jump
on and share your life with you hit me
up